>> Brian Holt: We have events and
listeners as well.
So a big reason that we use JavaScript, so
far, we've just been
kind of modifying things.
This would have been better in the first
place if I had just made it modified by
JavaScript because that's
what I wanted it to do.
But now, I'm gonna teach you how
to be reactive to user input,
which is more what JavaScript
is more useful for
in the browser.
>> Brian Holt: So if I have down here this
Click me button, I want it to be able
to react to a user clicking on it.
I don't want it to just do nothing.
So if I click on it
>> Brian Holt: What is going on with this?
>> Brian Holt: I swear this was
working before.
So I'm just gonna do it inside of my
experiments here.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm going to put this in my index.html.
>> Brian Holt: And
I'm just going to replace this.
>> Brian Holt: This
script tag does not end.
>> Brian Holt: So I'll save that.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
I'm going to open that index.html.
I have a one button on here,
if I click it, It says Hey there, right?
This is what an alert is.
An alert is these pop over
dialogues that everyone hates.
Yeah, that's an alert.
>> Brian Holt: Or
I think there's also a dialogue.
>> Brian Holt: There's a bunch of
them.
>> Brian Holt: So that's what that does.
Let's talk about the event
listener part of it.
>> Brian Holt: So button,
I did a query selector.
I get a hold of the button, right?
Which is this button up here.
I then do this function
called addEventListener.
So you're basically saying I'm waiting for
this event to happen,
whenever a click happens on this button,
run this function, right?
So I'll wait for the click, as soon as
someone clicks, then run this function.
And inside of there,
I'm saying, hey there,
that's why I'm doing the alert, right?
So that's what an event listener does.
It's just waiting for something, there's
more types of events than just clicks,
that's just one of them.
>> Brian Holt: Questions
about that?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: You'll often call these
a callback.
You'll hear that word callback.
It's just a function that you provide that
gets called back by something else, and
that's a callback.
>> Brian Holt: Alert is a super,
super annoying function,
so don't use alert.
It's useful for
debugging purposes and nothing else.
Or like you really want warn someone
like you're about to do something that's
going to screw something up,
just be super aware that you're doing
that.
>> Brian Holt: And
I wanted to break this down right here.
People kind of get weirded out by seeing
curly brace, parentheses, semi-colon.
So the curly brace is connected
to this function, right?
This parentheses is connected
to this parentheses right there.
And then, the semicolon being
the end of that statement, right?
So that's why all that stuff is together.
>> Brian Holt: Good?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Let's do another example
with an input tag.
So what I want to do is I wanna be
able to type something into an input.
And I want whatever is
being typed into this input
to immediately be put into
a different paragraph tag, right?
So if I type into it, does this work?
It does work, neat.
So as soon as I type into this something,
it's also putting it beneath it as well,
right?
Understand the functionality there?
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna
grab the input, document.querySelector,
input to copy.
>> Brian Holt: Then,
I'm gonna grab the paragraph by querying
the selector p to copy to, right?
So this grabs the input.
This grabs the paragraph.
And so,
I'm gonna say input .addEventListener.
And then, I'm gonna listen for keyup.
So keyup is whenever you lift
your finger off the key.
So whenever that happens, it's going to
copy whatever is inside of the input.
So input.value, right?
>> Brian Holt: And I'm going to put
that inside of paragraph.innerText.
>> Brian Holt: Make
sense?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's why this is,
I can't modify anything in this page.
I'm super annoyed by this.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway,
you could also do keydown here.
That would technically work.
So it would be whenever I pushed the
button down that the event would be fired.
However, keydown happens before
the value was inputted into the input.
So you would actually
always be one key behind,
which is annoying.
>> Brian Holt: And
let's just put that in, just to show you
what that actually ends up looking like.
Put this in here
>> Brian Holt: So
I'll refresh, make sure this works.
>> Brian Holt: That does work.
Okay, so if I change this to keydown.
>> Brian Holt: So notice I type F
>> Brian Holt: And nothing happens, right?
But if I hit F again,
you get the last one, right?
So I pressed the button,
keydown happens, and
then whatever I typed
gets put into the input.
So if I type G, keydown happens,
and then G gets put into the input,
and that's when it gets copied.
So it's always gonna one key behind.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's why it's missing
the f there on the end.
So that's why we did keyup, cuz keyup
happens after the value is put into
the input.
>> Brian Holt: Make
sense?
>> Brian Holt: So
these are subtleties that you
have to worry about with events.
And it's just one of those things that
you get by guessing and checking or
reading stocks.
Or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're sending that with innerText, and
we're getting that from input.value.
>> Brian Holt: So
I wanted to show you change.
So a change event happens
whenever you unfocus an input.
So I have this box right here, and
I can type in here Three, three, three.
Notice nothing has changed.
I'm about to click off of it.
So if I click off of it,
then it changes the color.
So it waits for
what's called a blur event.
So something focuses when I click on it,
and it blurs when I click off of it.
So if I come back in here and
say, I don't know,
lime green.
>> Brian Holt: Does that.
>> Brian Holt: My favorite color is peru.
I don't know if you knew this,
but peru is a color.
That is the color of peru.
I don't know where some
of these come from.
>> Brian Holt: Medium sea green.
Yeah, that's a color.
[LAUGH]
Or there's tons, there's dodger blue.
If any of you are baseball fans.
There's a bunch of them.
And some of them are purely nonsensical.
Or this one's a favorite, papaya whip.
>> Brian Holt: It's like
this weird yellowish color.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: Anyway, it's neither here
nor there.
>> Brian Holt: Questions
about events in general?
You can put events on anything, right?
So I could put a click event on a div,
and that does work, right?
So it's not tied,
necessarily, to anything.
What was the other thing
I wanted to say about it?
You can make your own events.
That is not something I typically do.
You can actually manually trigger events
on a div, and then you can listen for
that manually triggered event.
So I could listen for Briansevent.
And then,
there's a way you can say on this div,
trigger a briansevent on that event,
on that div.
It's not a very useful pattern, so I would
not suggest doing it, but it is possible.
Most of the time,
you're just listening for browser events.